uh
last year um
this year
[Music]
a small number of people are now leading
the charge
against the polyglot movement
here on youtube there are people arguing
passionately that this is a scam
i'm not one of them i'm not here to tell
you that it's a scam my analysis
of what's wrong with it is quite a bit
different i would compare it to
coming on the internet and promising
people passionately
that if only you adopted a vegan diet
it'll cure your acne if only you adopted
a vegan diet
you can quit all your meds you'll never
have any need for
accutane or any other harmful chemicals
that have terrible side effects ever
again you won't have to spend
20 a month on expensive soaps and gels
you'll have clear perfect skin if you
just eat a vegan diet
like me there are so many people
who will say to you if you dare to
criticize this type of movement
on the internet this type of marketing
scheme this type of community
on the internet there's so many people
say to you what's the harm
it's warm it's friendly it's positive
it's encouraging
people need encouragement people need
encouragement to get out there and try
people need encouragement to try
improving their diet improving their
exercise
improving their sleep and you know if
that doesn't work and it doesn't cure
your acne
at least at least you tried
and it's heartbreaking and it's tragic
and it ruins people's lives
and nobody stops to consider the strange
tragedy for these people who sign up
for this life-changing experience and
then
find their chagrin that no matter how
hard they try they can't
get the promised results
i'm learning mandarin and and moses is
the person who originally
inspired me to start learning mandarin i
found his channel
a little over a year ago and i thought
he was just this incredibly fascinating
person and i thought it was amazing
how many languages he could speak in the
sort of interactions he was able to have
with
strangers just by the virtue of of him
being able to speak to them in the
language
of um you know their home and i i
thought it was so cool
um so a little over a year ago i decided
that i was going to start learning
mandarin
i'm still learning mandarin
making that decision was a
was a a life-changing thing
me starting this journey of language
learning has
given me confidence it's helped me
dream bigger
it has shown me what i can accomplish
when i set my mind to something
[Music]
uh judezo uh
wow
[Music]
foreign improve my mandarin a lot this
year
so what is fluency
all of these programs are promising you
fluency in six months in
three months in 60 days
in a certain finite number of hours
measured on the app
sign up now what is fluency
very clearly fluency in a language does
not mean
standing on a street corner like moses
mccormack
and repeating the same handful of
memorized phrases
again and again without being able to
even understand the person's reply
meeting people and saying arabic is a
beautiful language
i like to speak arabic i studied on my
own i don't have a t-shirt like
this is all he did again and again
and he became this idol people worshiped
but he was an idol with feet of clay
and i mean it's tragic comic what you
see in the comments and if you even just
talk to other people who study languages
online
they'll always say something like oh
well i study chinese myself
so i can tell that his chinese is really
bad but i assume he speaks these other
languages really well
that someone else will say oh well
cambodian is my first language so i can
tell his cambodian is really bad but i
assume
he speaks chinese really well there are
these charitable assumptions
on all sides and what this guy was
selling and i do mean selling
was a false ideology and a broken method
to attain something that was
unattainable
now in what sense do i mean unattainable
i mean it's something like hot ice i
think it's something like
a square circle what do we mean
by fluency is it attainable
in six months or even let's say
two years my answer is no
it's completely impossible i would even
make a claim that it's kind of
biologically impossible if we think in
evolutionary terms
about the biological function of
language something these
polyglot youtubers avoid doing
or dealing with can you memorize
enough japanese to pass an exam
the jlpt standardized exam in two years
yes can you memorize enough chinese
to pass the standardized hsk
exams in two years yes but you can't
have
fluency right what is fluency
english is my first language i can take
out a newspaper
right now a newspaper that was published
today
and i can leaf through it i can read you
an article i've never seen before
with no preparation no dictionary
no checking my phone no walk requests i
can read you aloud
pieces of an article and then i can
pause and i can make spontaneous
commentary original commentary and i can
i can turn to my girlfriend off camera
and ask her her opinion
and she disagrees with me in that
language we can talk about it
and then i can say oh well this is the
next thing the article says all right
i can go through a newspaper article
with no preparation i've never seen
before
now i can talk in a meaningful way about
its content i can dispute it
with original vocabulary original
sentence constructions
made up on that spot can you do that in
any language other than your mother
tongue and
if so how many years did it take you
to get there do you think moses
mccormack do you think laoshu
55 000 this famous youtube do you think
he could take out a chinese newspaper
and read the news in chinese and comment
on it that way
for yourself at home
even with a language as closely related
to english
as german if you speak absolutely no
german today
you're born and raised speaking english
how close
do you think you could come to that
standard of fluency in german
in just two years if you worked your
ass off if you worked so hard every day
after two years
do you think you could hold up a copy of
today's german newspaper
and sit here on youtube and do analysis
and commentary
in german in french these are the
easiest languages if your first language
is english
and how does that compare to the
challenge presented
by chinese by japanese by some of the
most difficult
the most foreign languages in the world
what can you really accomplish
in two years or in six months
and i understand that people
are eager to lead a more meaningful life
and they latch on to this image of a new
and better life
presented to them by the polyglot
youtubers and they want to sign up and
they say
me too and there's something moving
and it's childlike in its pathos
okay they want to be somebody
more sophisticated more cosmopolitan
but are they really willing to examine
what their desires are
because a whole lot of these people are
motivated by
money fame power
respect sex
you think sex isn't a part of it just
scroll through the titles
of laoshu's videos
i don't even have to add commentary on
that front
how many of these people are dreaming of
flying away to japan
where suddenly they're just so much more
sexually attractive
to all these japanese men or all these
japanese women
that they had to struggle to get a date
growing up in chicago
but then they fly to japan and they're
the one black guy who speaks japanese
and everyone wants to sleep with them
you don't think that's a fantasy being
very consciously and intentionally
packaged and presented to the
audience by laoshu you don't think there
are white guys
who think if they learn to speak thai
and fly to thailand
they learn to speak vietnamese and fly
to vietnam
and what for every
pot there is a lid somewhere in the
kitchen for some people
they're thinking about going to brazil
for some people it's africa but yeah
when i list off
those motives money fame power
respect sex not necessarily
in that or for a whole lot of these
people it's sex
it's sexuality there are women who are
not too terribly good looking in this
world
and they look at someone like lindy
botes and they think
she's become famous she's become admired
not because of her looks but because she
has this amazing accomplishment
in language learning that could be me
too i could i could be the apple of
every man's eye in korea
if only i hit the books and learn korean
this is catering to some of the baser
motives
in human nature and look i don't think
anyone
has presented this as a get rich quick
scheme
but it is very obvious that for many of
the youtubers
peddling this trade that's exactly what
it is
many of the people who came on the
internet promising you
that you could cure your acne if only
you got on the same diet that i'm on
right now by the way
i happen to eat a vegan diet i just
don't believe it's the cure for acne
throw away your accutane throw away your
tinctures throw away all the medical
advice you've ever seen or read
the cure the cure is this crazy diet
you've never heard about
all right a lot of those people didn't
start
out motivated by money they started out
inspired by what they considered
sincerely enough to be their own
miraculous
results right and that's the most
pathetic part of
all right there are people who are so
deluded
that they really think they became
fluent in chinese
in six months there are people who go
and memorize a couple of set phrases and
film themselves for youtube in a chinese
restaurant
saying those set memorized phrases again
and again
and they delude themselves and they
delude their audience
into thinking they're fluent that they
become fluent in six months
or two years or whatever it may be okay
those who are deceived themselves
are the most pitiable of all
but this happens in successive stages
okay
some of them started off sincerely
enough
just wanting to share their miraculous
results of the audience
never entered their minds they'd be
making money out of it
but then that youtube money starts
coming in and then the brand deals start
coming in
and then the partnerships start coming
in and then you publish an ebook
pay 599 to download a pdf
right maybe you start getting your own
line of branded products
step by step what started off as
sincere becomes commercialized
and it's very important to recognize at
step one
that even when it was sincere it was
complete
[ __ ] the promises being made
by polyglots are just as biologically
impossible as me promising you
that you can cure your acne with a vegan
diet and you can only really appreciate
that
if you think about biologically what
acne
really is not just its appearance on the
surface
right and so having talked about
what fluency is in operation
as you might demonstrate it in a youtube
video working with a newspaper
let's just think for a second about what
fluency means
biologically okay the cavity
in my skull that i use to form
these complex sounds did not
evolve for the purpose of human language
okay the shape of our mouths
just like the mouth of a wolf
howling at the moon as different as that
may be
a wolf also has a long snout right
but what we have in common is that when
a wolf is a little baby
is a little infant it drinks milk
from its mother's breast
crabs don't do this snakes
don't do this right the brotherhood
of mammals is that we all evolved
to breastfeed and then one way or
another we have to have this special
structure
with the shape of our lips and the roof
of our mouth
which is designed to form a latch for
breastfeeding
that is what we're evolved to do that is
crucial to our survival
anyone lacking that structure in a state
of nature
over the last several thousand years or
several million years
could not survive to the next generation
and wolves just like humans can make the
sound
of the vowel oh they can say
crows can't canaries
can't snakes can't so on throughout the
rest
of the animal kingdom
and we have adapted this very strange
innate ability to drink milk
into an ability to communicate with our
own mothers
that is learned while we're cradled in
their arms
breastfeeding we are evolved to
understand
one language and one language only and
it takes us about 20 years to learn
practicing 24 7 around the clock and
that is your first
language and there are
many many people i'd love to know the
percentage
who were born and raised with english as
the only language they know
and they can't do what i just described
as a test of fluency
in their own first language they can't
take out a newspaper
read off the news discuss it come up
with original observations
right whether you think of this as a
learning disability
or mental disability or just a lack of
fluency
in your own first language right even
this measure is something
not everyone would pass not everyone in
their years of schooling
and their years spent speaking to their
parents develop that high level of
verbal ability that high level of
language fluency
even in their first language okay
now if you want to take that weight of a
couple million years
of evolution and throw it over your
shoulders
and you want to start again learning the
rudiments
of meaning in a new language as
a newborn baby does if you want to start
all over again
in chinese okay you have my sympathy
you have my support but you're actually
attempting to do something
that's almost biologically impossible
i've said this in a separate video it
[ __ ] you up
it comes at a price it comes at a
terrible cost
i was speaking chinese over skype the
other day
with a friend of my girlfriend and in
the middle of a sentence i laughed from
chinese into the
lotion language and i haven't spoken
laotian for for more than 10 years
hasn't really been it's a language i
learned many many years ago okay
it's awful carrying with you fragments
of multiple languages and trying to
keep them straight and there is a
cost because all those hours you're
spending
practicing the simplest rudiments of the
language
are hours that you are not spending on
the more sophisticated aspects
of language culture history
right do you want to speak chinese or do
you want to know
about china do you want to know the
history and politics of china perhaps
the literature of china
most of that reading most of that
research you're going to have to do in
english
if english is your first language and if
you spend five years
just working as hard as you can hitting
the books as hard as you can in chinese
how much better are you going to speak
chinese
than the average native speaker when
they're 5 years old
when they're 10 years old when they're
15 years old how many years
is it going to take you to catch up in
your level of language ability in
chinese
with a lisping teenager okay
and then what are all the things you
didn't learn what are the things you
didn't do with your life
just by making that commitment to
achieve fluency in
one language okay
i don't think it's evil for human beings
to want money
to want fame
or sex
you have to decide do you want it that
way
do you want it for that reason
do you want to sleep with that woman or
that man
because they're the kind of person who
would sleep with any black guy
who happens to speak japanese or they
would sleep with any white guy
who happens to speak tai
is that who you want to be is that what
you want to be rewarded for
this sick thrill that laoshu
you know i think for the first time he
really commodified this
as a form of entertainment for the world
this thrill of
oh wow i can't believe it you're a black
guy but you speak cambodian
he speaks very very poor cambodian he
speaks just a few parts of cambodia but
nevertheless these people just have
incredibly low standards for him
because he's a black guy and probably
also because the way he dresses
and frankly if he were a white guy
wearing a nice suit
and he spoke cambodian people might ask
oh so what did were you with the
military in cambodia oh did you do
humanitarian work anybody
were you a christian missionary there
are a lot of white guys to speak
important or are you a
guy who got married due cambodia it
wouldn't it wouldn't be that surprising
and they'd have
higher expectations believe me i've been
in that situation i've been in so many
situations where i speak laotian and
people expect me to be completely fluent
in lotion
they assume about lotion grandkids by
now you know what i mean like oh yeah so
you're one of those
oh you must have been with the cia and
you you've spoken for years you married
no
you know like i studied the language for
like a year and a half or something guys
like i'm not i'm not that confident in
the language come on
you know oh you know uh
a lot of this reflects you know the
bigotry of low expectations and it
is bigotry pure and simple
if you go to his channel and search for
the words black guy
and then scroll through the the channels
or black man
just scroll through the names of his
videos think about what it is he's
commodified think about what it is he's
he's commercializing you know really and
a lot of them make references to the
the women especially being amazed or
being and i've seen him give narratives
about women whom he supposedly could
have slept with but didn't because he
was married
at the time japanese women and someone
who wanted to sleep with him because
they were so impressed
that he was a black guy who spoke
if somebody wants to speak with you
just because you're an exotic foreigner
who memorized a few sentences
a few pages of a phrase book in their
language
is that someone you want to sleep with
is that someone you want to seduce all
right we all want sex
but you want sex on those terms is that
who you want to be
if you want to be famous if you want to
make
money okay if you want to be respected
by others if you want to earn other
people's respect
okay is this the way you want to do it
the problem with the whole polyglot
subculture on youtube is not that it's
encouraging people to study languages
is not that it's encouraging people to
achieve fluency
it's that it's encouraging people to
pursue money
fame power respect sex
by living a lie
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice